docs: Update Add v1 Rollback (#6689)
aws/karpenter-provider-aws: website/content/en/preview/upgrading/v1-migration.md

* Version `v1.0.0` adds [conversion webhooks](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definition-versioning/#webhook-conversion) to automatically pull the v1 API version of previously applied v1beta1 NodePools, EC2NodeClasses, and NodeClaims. Karpenter will stop serving the v1beta1 API version at v1.1.0 and will drop the conversion webhooks at that time. You will need to migrate all stored manifests to v1 API versions on Karpenter v1.0+. Keep in mind that this is a conversion and not dual support, which means that resources are updated in-place rather than migrated over from the previous version.
* If you need to rollback the upgrade to v1, you need to upgrade to a special patch version of the minor version you came from. For instance, if you came from v0.33.5, you'll need to downgrade back to v0.33.6. More details on how to do this in [Downgrading]({{<ref "#downgrading" >}}).

> * Validate that you are running at least Kubernetes 1.25. Use the [compatibility matrix]({{<ref "compatibility#compatibility-matrix">}}) to confirm you are on a supported  Kubernetes version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Validate that you are running at least Kubernetes 1.25. Use the [compatibility matrix]({{<ref "compatibility#compatibility-matrix">}}) to confirm you are on a supported Kubernetes version.
```

> * Vaildate that you are running a [compatible version]({{<ref "compatibility#compatibility-matrix">}}) of the Kubernetes for both upgrading to Karpenter 1.0 and downgrading to a v1beta1 supported version of Karpenter.

Reviewer 2: Can we be explicit and just say, you have to be running at least v1.25?

**Remove kubelet annotation from NodePools**: During the upgrade process Karpenter will rely on the `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation to determine whether to use the v1beta1 NodePool kubelet configuration or the v1 EC2NodeClass kubelet configuration. As long as the  `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation is present, Karpenter will use that kubeletConfiguration setting when launching nodes. Remove the kubelet-configuration annotation (`compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation) from your NodePools once you have migrated kubelet from the NodePool to the EC2NodeClass. Keep in mind that rollback, without replacing the Karpenter nodes, will not be supported to an earlier version of Karpenter once the annotation is removed. This is annotation is only used to support the KubeletConfiguration migration path, but will not be supported in v1.1.

### Downgrading
The patch version of the v1beta1 Karpenter controller that include the conversion wehooks: 

* v0.37.1
* v0.36.3
* v0.35.6
* v0.34.7
* v0.33.6

{{% alert title="Note" color="warning" %}}

> When rolling back from v1, Karpenter will not retain data that was only valid in v1 APIs. For instance, if you were upgrading from v0.33.5 to v1, and then rolling back to v0.33.6, Karpenter would not retain the `NodePool.Spec.Disruption.Budgets` field, as that was introduced in v0.34.x. If you are configuring the kubelet field, and have removed the `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation, rollback is not supported without replacing your nodes between EC2NodeClass and NodePool.

Author: That makes sense, I was thinking that a person could add that in themself to enable it. I can drop that part

{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Note" color="warning" %}}
As both v1beta1 and v1 will be served, `kubectl` will default to returning the `v1` version of your CRDs. To interact with the v1beta1 version of your CRDs, you'll need to add the APIVersion on the end of your `kubectl` calls. For example: `k get nodeclaim.v1beta1.karpenter.sh`
{{% /alert %}}

> 

Author: What do you mean? We are giving them an example of a reference to the full path. What else are you thinking they will need?

> 

Reviewer: My point is that (similar to our getting started guide). There are a lot of environment variables that are being used throughout these commands -- some which we have asked users to define within the command itself and others that we haven't mentioned that you need to set (e.g. `CLUSTER_NAME`, `KARPENTER_VERSION`). I'd like to just see a section that defines the environment variables similar to our getting started guide

Step 1.) Rollback the Karpenter Policy to reflect the version

```bash
TEMPOUT=$(mktemp)
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws/karpenter-provider-aws/v"${KARPENTER_VERSION}"/website/content/en/docs/getting-started/getting-started-with-karpenter/cloudformation.yaml > ${TEMPOUT} \
    && aws cloudformation deploy \
    --stack-name "Karpenter-${CLUSTER_NAME}" \
    --template-file "${TEMPOUT}" \
    --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM \
    --parameter-overrides "ClusterName=${CLUSTER_NAME}"
```

Step 2.) Rollback the CRDs to the version that is being rollbacked

```bash

> KARPENTER_NAMESPACE=kube-system 

Author: I templated both helm commands and did not find any other reference to a namespace

> KARPENTER_NAMESPACE=kube-system 

Reviewer: My point is that you have one command that's defining this environment variable and didn't include it in the other. Would prefer that you have a section similar to our getting started guide where you just define all of the environment variables for the rollback in a single place

> KARPENTER_NAMESPACE=kube-system 

Author: Makes sense, I just moved them out to a their own step

helm upgrade --install karpenter-crd oci://public.ecr.aws/karpenter/karpenter-crd --version "${KARPENTER_VERSION}" --namespace "${KARPENTER_NAMESPACE}" --create-namespace \
  --set webhook.enabled=true \
  --set webhook.serviceName=karpenter \
  --set webhook.serviceNamespace="${KARPENTER_NAMESPACE}" \
  --set webhook.port=8443
```

> Step 3.) Rollback the Karpenter Controller Version 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.) Rollback the Karpenter Controller 
```

```bash
helm upgrade --install karpenter oci://public.ecr.aws/karpenter/karpenter --version ${KARPENTER_VERSION} --namespace kube-system --create-namespace \
  --set serviceAccount.annotations."eks\.amazonaws\.com/role-arn"=${KARPENTER_IAM_ROLE_ARN} \

>   --set settings.aws.defaultInstanceProfile=KarpenterNodeInstanceProfile-${CLUSTER_NAME} \

Author: Looked through the upgrade guide and getting started. This was pulled from the v1beta1 migration, and is the only reference. Removed it from the command

  --set settings.clusterName=${CLUSTER_NAME} \
  --set settings.interruptionQueue=${CLUSTER_NAME} \
  --set controller.resources.requests.cpu=1 \
  --set controller.resources.requests.memory=1Gi \
  --set controller.resources.limits.cpu=1 \
  --set controller.resources.limits.memory=1Gi \
  --set webhook.enabled=true \
  --set webhook.port=8443 \
  --wait
```

> 

Reviewer: Should we add a bit here at the end that says something like, "Karpenter should now be pulling and operating against the v1beta1 api version as it was prior to the upgrade"

If you have multiple NodePools pointing to the same EC2NodeClass, but they have the same configuration, then you can proceed with the migration
without having drift or having any additional NodePools or EC2NodeClasses configured.

> * **Remove kubelet annotation from NodePools**: During the upgrade process Karpenter will rely on the `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation to determine when the v1beta1 NodePool kkubeletConfigurationubelet field or the v1 EC2NodeClass kubeletConfiguration field will be used. As long as the  `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation is present, Karpenter will use that kubeletConfiguration setting when launching nodes. Remove the kubelet-configuration annotation (`compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation) from your NodePools once that you have migrated kubeletConfiguration from the NodePool to the EC2NodeClass. Keep in mind that rollback, without replacing the Karpenter nodes, will not be supported to an earlier version of Karpenter once the annotation is removed. This is used to support the KubeletConfiguration migration path above, but is not supported in v1.1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Remove kubelet annotation from NodePools**: During the upgrade process Karpenter will rely on the `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation to determine whether to use the v1beta1 NodePool kubelet configuration or the v1 EC2NodeClass kubelet configuration. As long as the  `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation is present, Karpenter will use that kubeletConfiguration setting when launching nodes. Remove the kubelet-configuration annotation (`compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation) from your NodePools once you have migrated kubelet from the NodePool to the EC2NodeClass. Keep in mind that rollback, without replacing the Karpenter nodes, will not be supported to an earlier version of Karpenter once the annotation is removed. This is annotation is only used to support the KubeletConfiguration migration path, but will not be supported in v1.1.
```

Karpenter will crash on the upgrade if NodePool resources contain this annotation. Users should make sure that their kubelet configurations are migrated prior to upgrading to properly drift their nodes to the correct configurations.

### Downgrading
The patch version of the v1beta1 Karpenter controller that include the conversion wehooks: 

* v0.37.1
* v0.36.3
* v0.35.6
* v0.34.7
* v0.33.6

{{% alert title="Note" color="warning" %}}

> On Rollback users can potentially experience data loss for values that were configured using v1 APIs. The conversion webhooks will convert configuration. If you are relying on kubeletConfiguration, and has been removed `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation, rollback is not supported without replacing your nodes between EC2NodeClass and NodePool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When rolling back from v1, Karpenter will not retain data that was only valid in v1 APIs. For instance, if you were upgrading from v0.33.5 to v1, and then rolling back to v0.33.6, Karpenter would not retain the `NodePool.Spec.Disruption.Budgets` field, as that was introduced in v0.34.x. If you are configuring the kubelet field, and have removed the `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation, rollback is not supported without replacing your nodes between EC2NodeClass and NodePool.
```

{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Note" color="warning" %}}

> As both v1beta1 and v1 will be served, `kubectl` will require specifying v1beta1 version of the CRDs. For example: `k get nodeclaim.v1beta1.karpenter.sh`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As both v1beta1 and v1 will be served, `kubectl` will default to returning the `v1` version of your CRDs. To interacet with the v1beta1 version of your CRDs, you'll need to add the APIVersion on the end of your `kubectl` calls. For example: `k get nodeclaim.v1beta1.karpenter.sh`
```

{{% /alert %}}

Step 1.) Rollback the Karpenter Policy to reflect the version

```bash
TEMPOUT=$(mktemp)
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws/karpenter-provider-aws/v"${KARPENTER_VERSION}"/website/content/en/docs/getting-started/getting-started-with-karpenter/cloudformation.yaml > ${TEMPOUT} \
    && aws cloudformation deploy \
    --stack-name "Karpenter-${CLUSTER_NAME}" \
    --template-file "${TEMPOUT}" \
    --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM \
    --parameter-overrides "ClusterName=${CLUSTER_NAME}"
```

Step 2.) Rollback the CRDs to the version that is being rollbacked

```bash
KARPENTER_NAMESPACE=kube-system 

> helm upgrade --install karpenter-crd oci://public.ecr.aws/karpenter/karpenter-crd --version "1.0.0" --namespace "${KARPENTER_NAMESPACE}" --create-namespace \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm upgrade --install karpenter-crd oci://public.ecr.aws/karpenter/karpenter-crd --version "${KARPENTER_VERSION}" --namespace "${KARPENTER_NAMESPACE}" --create-namespace \
```

  --set webhook.enabled=true \
  --set webhook.serviceName=karpenter \
  --set webhook.serviceNamespace="${KARPENTER_NAMESPACE}" \
  --set webhook.port=8443
```

Step 3.) Rollback the Karpenter Controller Version 
```bash
helm upgrade --install karpenter oci://public.ecr.aws/karpenter/karpenter --version ${KARPENTER_VERSION} --namespace kube-system --create-namespace \
  --set serviceAccount.annotations."eks\.amazonaws\.com/role-arn"=${KARPENTER_IAM_ROLE_ARN} \
  --set settings.aws.defaultInstanceProfile=KarpenterNodeInstanceProfile-${CLUSTER_NAME} \
  --set settings.clusterName=${CLUSTER_NAME} \
  --set settings.interruptionQueue=${CLUSTER_NAME} \
  --set controller.resources.requests.cpu=1 \
  --set controller.resources.requests.memory=1Gi \
  --set controller.resources.limits.cpu=1 \
  --set controller.resources.limits.memory=1Gi \

>   --set webhook.enabled=true \

Reviewer 2: Does this have any interactions with the `validatingwebhookconfigurations` and `mutatingwebhookconfigurations` that would be included when the webhook was enabled on the lower versions?

Author: I have not seen any interaction during my testing. The main thing would the logs they would see for their validation webhooks

Author: We took the position that both validating/mutating admission webhooks  will be running along side the conversion webhook, so users can't disable one without the other

Reviewer 2: Fair, I think we should still say something like "make sure you're on v1.25+ before starting your migration

If you have multiple NodePools pointing to the same EC2NodeClass, but they have the same configuration, then you can proceed with the migration
without having drift or having any additional NodePools or EC2NodeClasses configured.

> **Remove kubelet annotation from NodePools**: During the upgrade process Karpenter will rely on the `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation to determine whether to use the v1beta1 NodePool kubelet configuration or the v1 EC2NodeClass kubelet configuration. As long as the  `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation is present, Karpenter will use that kubelet configuration setting when launching nodes. Remove the kubelet-configuration annotation (`compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation) from your NodePools once you have migrated kubelet from the NodePool to the EC2NodeClass. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Remove kubelet annotation from NodePools**: During the upgrade process Karpenter will rely on the `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation to determine whether to use the v1beta1 NodePool kubelet configuration or the v1 EC2NodeClass kubelet configuration. The   `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` NodePool annotation takes precedence over the EC2NodeClass Kubelet configuration when launching nodes. Remove the kubelet-configuration annotation (`compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation) from your NodePools once you have migrated kubelet from the NodePool to the EC2NodeClass. 
```

* v0.37.1
* v0.36.3
* v0.35.6
* v0.34.7
* v0.33.6

{{% alert title="Note" color="warning" %}}
When rolling back from v1, Karpenter will not retain data that was only valid in v1 APIs. For instance, if you were upgrading from v0.33.5 to v1, updated the `NodePool.Spec.Disruption.Budgets` field and then rolled back to v0.33.6, Karpenter would not retain the `NodePool.Spec.Disruption.Budgets` field, as that was introduced in v0.34.x. If you are configuring the kubelet field, and have removed the `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation, rollback is not supported without replacing your nodes between EC2NodeClass and NodePool.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Note" color="warning" %}}
Since both v1beta1 and v1 will be served, `kubectl` will default to returning the `v1` version of your CRDs. To interact with the v1beta1 version of your CRDs, you'll need to add the full resource path (including api version) into `kubectl` calls. For example: `k get nodeclaim.v1beta1.karpenter.sh`
{{% /alert %}}

> 1.) Rollback the Karpenter Policy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Rollback the Karpenter Policy
```
Remove the ")" on each of the steps.

If you have multiple NodePools pointing to the same EC2NodeClass, but they have the same configuration, then you can proceed with the migration
without having drift or having any additional NodePools or EC2NodeClasses configured.

> **Remove kubelet annotation from NodePools**: During the upgrade process Karpenter will rely on the `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation to determine whether to use the v1beta1 NodePool kubelet configuration or the v1 EC2NodeClass kubelet configuration. The   `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` NodePool annotation takes precedence over the EC2NodeClass Kubelet configuration when launching nodes. Remove the kubelet-configuration annotation (`compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation) from your NodePools once you have migrated kubelet from the NodePool to the EC2NodeClass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remove kubelet annotation from NodePools**: During the upgrade process Karpenter will rely on the `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` annotation to determine whether to use the v1beta1 NodePool kubelet configuration or the v1 EC2NodeClass kubelet configuration. The   `compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion` NodePool annotation takes precedence over the EC2NodeClass Kubelet configuration when launching nodes. Remove the kubelet-configuration annotation (`compatibility.karpenter.sh/v1beta1-kubelet-conversion`) from your NodePools once you have migrated kubelet from the NodePool to the EC2NodeClass.
```

> Keep in mind that rollback, without replacing the Karpenter nodes, will not be supported to an earlier version of Karpenter once the annotation is removed. This is annotation is only used to support the KubeletConfiguration migration path, but will not be supported in v1.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that rollback, without replacing the Karpenter nodes, will not be supported to an earlier version of Karpenter once the annotation is removed. This annotation is only used to support the kubelet configuration migration path, but will not be supported in v1.1.
```

### Downgrading

> Once the Karpenter CRDs are upgraded to v1, conversion webhooks are needed to help convert APIs that are stored in etcd from v1 to v1beta1. Also changes to the CRDs will need to at least include the latest version of the CRD in this case being v1. The patch versions of the v1beta1 Karpenter controller that include the conversion wehooks: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Karpenter CRDs are upgraded to v1, conversion webhooks are needed to help convert APIs that are stored in etcd from v1 to v1beta1. Also changes to the CRDs will need to at least include the latest version of the CRD in this case being v1. The patch versions of the v1beta1 Karpenter controller that include the conversion wehooks include: 
```

To remind yourself of these values, type:

```bash
echo "${KARPENTER_NAMESPACE}" "${KARPENTER_VERSION}" "${CLUSTER_NAME}" "${TEMPOUT}"
```

{{% /alert %}}

2. Rollback the Karpenter Policy

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws/karpenter-provider-aws/v"${KARPENTER_VERSION}"/website/content/en/docs/getting-started/getting-started-with-karpenter/cloudformation.yaml > ${TEMPOUT} \
    && aws cloudformation deploy \
    --stack-name "Karpenter-${CLUSTER_NAME}" \
    --template-file "${TEMPOUT}" \
    --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM \
    --parameter-overrides "ClusterName=${CLUSTER_NAME}"
```

3. Rollback the CRDs

```bash
helm upgrade --install karpenter-crd oci://public.ecr.aws/karpenter/karpenter-crd --version "${KARPENTER_VERSION}" --namespace "${KARPENTER_NAMESPACE}" --create-namespace \
  --set webhook.enabled=true \
  --set webhook.serviceName=karpenter \
  --set webhook.serviceNamespace="${KARPENTER_NAMESPACE}" \
  --set webhook.port=8443
```

4. Rollback the Karpenter Controller 

```bash
helm upgrade --install karpenter oci://public.ecr.aws/karpenter/karpenter --version ${KARPENTER_VERSION} --namespace "${KARPENTER_NAMESPACE}" --create-namespace \

>   --set serviceAccount.annotations."eks\.amazonaws\.com/role-arn"=${KARPENTER_IAM_ROLE_ARN} \

Reviewer: We have just been doing the EKS pod identity version of this, I think we are good to drop this line since we don't have it in other installation calls earlier in this file

Author: I was thinking of leaving the service account flag, since it handles both IRSA and pod identity. If the user has pod identity that will be prioritized. User will just loss the ability to use IRSA from our helm command
